- [Instructor] The next step is to set up
the database connection code and the database script.
As we spoke earlier,
we are going to use the in-memory H2 database.
For that we need one class
that'll get us that connection to the database
and also load the database script file
to create tables and insert data into them.
To save some time,
I've already got this database connection code class
ready with me,
and it will be available to you
under your resources folder of chapter three.
So I'm going to just copy this class,
go back to the IDE
and first create a package under the Java folder.
Let's call it com.shopping.db
and let's base that class under it.
In addition to that, we also need the database script file
that is also provided under the resources folder.
So let's copy that
and paste it under the resources folder of your project.
Just to be clear, the H2 database connection class code
and the initialized.sql script
everything contained under this will change
if you wish to work with an alternate database.
Let's now walk through the H2 database collection class
to see what it does for us.
So there are two parts in this,
one is to create a connection first,
second, is to load the script file
and run the database and make it fully functional for us.
So there is a method which is on line 34,
getConnectionToDatabase.
This is the one that we'll start getting us a connection
to the in-memory database.
That in memory database connection
will be provided with three parameters,
the URL of the database, the username, and the password.
So it has to first load the driver class on line number 37
and subsequently get us a connection on line number 38
by using that URL user and password combination.
This is a simple JDBC code to access the database.
In case you do not wish to use JDBC,
you can use any other API of your choice.
So that's the method that'll get us the connection.
The second part of this file is to load the database script
and run it on that database.
That is done by a method called initializeDatabase
written on line 67
that takes a connection as a parameter
and it'll load the script file,
which is initialize.sql from the class but of your project,
it will read it and it'll execute that script
as stated on line number 69.
Now both these paths, that is getting a connection
and initializing the database
will get executed when the H2 database connection class
gets loaded in the memory.
There is a static initializer block from lines 22 to 30,
which will do this entire job for us.
That is all.
So this is what we have
in the H2O database connection class for us.
The other part is the SQL script.
So this will have the create statement for the user table
and the insert statements for the user table.
And then we have the create statement for the oddest table,
and the insert statement for the same.
So there are two tables that we're going to use
as a part of this project.
One, is the user table and the other is the orders table.
So this is all that you have to do
in order to get this basic database connection code set up
along with the database getting entirely ready for you.
Additionally, inside the H2 database connection class,
there are a couple of methods that I have incorporated
which is on line 52, a start database method
and on line 60 a stop database method.
These are the methods that you can use
in case you want to access the H2 database
by a client outside this project.
We will not use these methods,
but this is just a set of utility methods
that I have incorporated in case you want to use them.